Detective Recapped here. Today, I'm going to
explain an Indonesian thriller film called,
"Marlina the Murderer in Four Acts".
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
Act One: The Robbery
A man on a dirt bike weaves through the fields
of the island of Sumba. He makes his way to a
lone hut in the middle of nowhere. In this place,
the nearest neighboring house is miles away,
making it the perfect place to commit a crime.
The man on the dirt bike is named Markus,
an aged man who is a criminal and a fiend.
Markus enters the hut where a young and beautiful
woman named Marlina lives. Upon seeing Marlina,
Markus asks if her husband is home, and
she answers that he will be back soon.
Markus immediately knows that she is
lying because her husband's corpse is
sitting right in the same room they're
in. It's unnoticeable at first glance,
but from the dark corner, he could be
seen, sitting while wrapped in a blanket.
Markus must have heard of Marlina's late husband
and the beautiful widow he left behind, all with
their material possessions. Then, Markus does
something that only an evil-hearted man could do:
he starts explaining to Marlina the cruel
intentions he has for her in a disturbingly
calm manner. He will be stealing all of her money
and livestock, and soon, more men will arrive,
and they will violate her as a group. With his
twisted mind, he even implies that Marlina would
be lucky to have multiple men at the same time.
After demanding Marlina to make them dinner,
Markus takes out and plays his prized jungga, a
native instrument. In spite of his vile promises,
Marlina stoically exits the room and
braces herself for the upcoming danger.
Later that day, several men come in a truck and
another dirt bike. Marlina counts six men in
total, including Markus. When the men got off the
truck, they ordered a man named "Franz" to inspect
the livestock before loading the animals into
their truck. Afterwards, four of the men go inside
the hut's living room area to meet with Markus.
The heartless and disgusting men all discuss how
they will violate Marlina as if it were such a
trivial thing. Markus then gets up and leaves
his friends to take a nap. While listening
to their conversation from the next room,
Marlina feels a shiver down her spine as they
talk about taking turns with her. Still, the
fierce and determined Marlina doesn't give in to
the fear, and she resolves to survive the night.
She enters the living room to join the thugs, who
are sitting near her husband's corpse. Most of
them barely have the guts to look her in the eye,
knowing the evil intent they carried with them.
Marlina feigns courtesy and greets them a good
evening before entering her room where Markus is
staying. Marlina sits by the mirror and pretends
to comb her hair while retrieving a wrapped item
from the drawer without Markus's notice. Just as
Markus demanded earlier, Marlina begins cooking
dinner for them. However, the chicken soup she's
making has a special ingredient. The wrapped
item she retrieved contains a potent and lethally
poisonous fruit, and she mixes it with the soup.
Suddenly, Franz comes in from the backdoor and
sees her cooking the soup. Marlina then steps
on the fruit, concealing its existence from her
assailants. With Franz asking for a taste, Marlina
is about to prepare it for him when one of the men
shouts at him for trying to eat ahead. He orders
Franz to leave and come back tomorrow instead.
Being the newbie of the group, Franz complies.
Finally, it's time for dinner. Marlina
has prepared several plates for the men,
and she serves them chicken soup. Every one of
them enjoys the food, and they even compliment
Marlina's cooking. All Marlina has to do next is
wait, and soon, all four men are lying down on the
ground. Now, only Markus is left. With the rest
of his crew lying dead in the living room, Marlina
brings a plate of the poisoned soup directly to
Markus, who's still taking a nap in her room.
However, Markus can no longer contain his
vile urges, and he ends up dumping the food.
He then forces himself on Marlina and starts
moving on top of her. When Marlina tries
to resist, Markus hits her in the face.
Fortunately, she spots Markus’s machete
on the bedside table and sees
it as a way to free herself,
all while the perverted Markus is convinced
that Marlina secretly likes what he's doing.
While pretending to enjoy what Markus is doing,
she skillfully motions herself so that she's
on top of him. At the same time, she grabs
the machete and hides it behind her. After
unsheathing the blade, she swings it at Markus,
making the perfect cut to behead him. Afterwards,
Marlina takes Markus's instrument and burns
it. With everything that happened, Marlina is
still in shock, and she sorrowfully leans on her
husband's corpse in an attempt to find comfort.
Act Two: The Journey
Marlina walks the long and winding road
with Markus's head dangling from a piece of cloth.
Marlina soon meets her friend, Novi. Strangely
enough, Novi isn't as shocked as she ought to be
when she sees the dangling head. Heavily pregnant,
Novi goes on and on about her issues at home.
She also explains that she's trying to find her
husband, who she fears might be late for their
baby's due date. In turn, Marlina tells Novi
that she intends to take the head to the police.
Finally, the public service truck stops by, and
Marlina tries to get on, but the driver refuses
for fear of getting in trouble. In response,
Marlina takes out her blade and forces the driver
to take her. Upon seeing this, the rest of the
passengers leave the truck, not wanting to get
caught up in anything. Left with no other choice,
the driver takes Marlina and Novi to the city.
Eventually, the odd group happens upon an
elderly woman who stopped right in front of
the truck. Despite the driver's warnings,
she still gets on. The woman explains that she's
in a hurry to get two horses to her nephew,
who will use them for a dowry. The woman cares
little upon seeing Marlina with the blade against
the driver's throat and eventually boards the
truck along with the two horses. With her is
another young man tending to the animals. The
recent addition to their peculiar group starts
exchanging stories with Novi despite the oddity
of it all. Then, the elderly woman notices that
Marlina's getting tired of holding her hand
up, so she invites her to the passenger car,
assuring her that the driver won't leave. When
Marlina enters the passenger car, the errand boy,
Ian, asks why she was carrying the severed head.
Marlina replies that the head is her prisoner.
On their journey, a truck drives past them with
two gruff men sitting in front. Marlina sees the
truck from afar, and there, she spots Franz. She
successfully hides from Franz's gaze, and they're
able to pass by safely. Franz and his companion
go straight towards Marlina's hut, where they find
the bodies of their dead companions. The two men
hurriedly go on their way to hunt down Marlina.
Meanwhile, Marlina and Novi stop by the side of
the road to urinate. Novi goes on and on about her
pregnancy experiences while Marlina envisions
Markus's headless body playing his little
instrument. Here, Novi asks Marlina about the
truth, and Marlina explains that she was violated
and that she killed the men. Confused, Novi asks
why she would report the men in the first place.
After all, Marlina will only be incarcerated
for a murder she can't defend in court.
Novi then invites Marlina to stay with her
to keep safe, but she declines. Just then,
the two gruff men drive up to Marlina's truck.
They pull out their machetes and demand the
passengers to reveal Marlina. Novi walks up to
them and sends the men in the wrong direction.
The men then order all of the passengers to board
the truck, and they drive off. With them gone,
Marlina spots a horse. She goes to ride it while
continually being haunted by the headless Markus.
Act Three: The Confession
The nearest police station
is situated in the middle of a humble
village with only a handful of inhabitants.
Before arriving there, Marlina finds a box that
she could conceal the severed head with. She
hitches her horse to a tree, then brings the box
with her to a nearby shack that's serving food.
With Marlina sat there, a little girl approaches
her, asking if she wants to order a plate of
their famous satay. Marlina takes a liking
to the girl who introduces herself as Topan.
Upon hearing the name, Marlina's heart softened
as she explains that she was to have a son named
Topan, but she lost him to a miscarriage. In turn,
Topan shares that she was given a boy's name in
hopes that she'd be as strong as one. Smiling,
Marlina orders a plate of satay, and she has her
lunch while Topay accompanies her. After eating,
Marlina leaves the box with the severed head in
Topan's care, instructing her not to open it.
Marlina then heads to the police station,
where she finds the police wasting their time
away on table tennis. It takes a while before
anyone attends to Marlina because of their table
tennis game, but eventually, a policeman takes
her report. She hesitates on whether she should
tell the whole truth, but she decides against it.
The policeman tells Marlina it will take two
to three days for them to inspect her house,
and it will take a month to have a
special check-up with her defilement case.
Either way, the police will need
evidence for any action to be taken.
Realizing that the law won't help her, Marlina
returns to the food shack with tears in her eyes.
Topan comes by with the box and embraces Marlina,
comforting her and telling her not to cry.
The kind Topan has Marlina stay in her home for
that evening. The two grow close with one another,
and Topan tells Marlina that her mother must
have been as pretty as she was, hinting that
she's an orphan. The following morning, Topan is
still asleep when Marlina leaves on her horse,
and she brings Markus's head with her.
She then picks up her phone to call Novi.
Act Four: The Birth.
Back to Novi's group, the truck
driver had been killed by the two bandits. The
other bandit, Niko, starts shoveling dirt a yard
away from the rest of the group. As for Franz,
he's guarding Novi, the elderly woman, and Ian.
While they're waiting, a scared Novi receives a
call from her husband, Umbu. Novi tries to talk
to him, but Franz hijacks the call, pretending to
be Novi's lover. This angers Novi, and Ian takes
advantage of the commotion to overpower Franz.
With Franz knocked down, Novi and the rest of
the party board the truck, leaving Franz and Niko
behind. Furious, Niko punches Franz a couple of
times. He then leaves, deciding to quit their
operation after having failed more than once.
Later, Ian and the woman drop Novi off at her
meeting place with Umbu. After they part ways,
the husband and wife are reunited. However, Umbu
is furious at the phone call he received earlier,
and he accuses Novi of having a breech baby. In
Indonesian culture, it's a sign of infidelity.
This leads to Umbu pushing and hitting Novi
several times before leaving her in the
middle of nowhere. Unbeknownst to her, Franz has
been watching everything from up a small hill.
He then approaches Novi and takes her hostage.
Since he still has Novi's phone from earlier,
he demands that she speak with Marlina. Novi
takes the ringing phone to tell Marlina that
Franz has her before Franz takes the phone,
ordering Marlina to meet them at her house.
Franz and Novi arrive there first. The moment
Novi steps down from Franz's motorbike,
her water breaks, and she's suddenly going into
labor. But the poor Novi is left to take some of
Marlina's clothes and put them on. Franz and Novi
then settle down at Marlina's house while waiting
for her arrival. When Franz isn't looking, she
makes preparations for the upcoming standoff.
Novi retrieves one of the dead men's machetes then
hides it away in the kitchen. While there, she
finds some of the poisonous fruit still left over.
Meanwhile, Franz takes Markus's headless body and
positions it in the living room. Now, there are
two corpses in Marlina's living room: on one
side is her husband and on the other is Markus.
After dark, Marlina finally arrives, and she finds
Novi and Franz waiting for her. Marlina returns
Markus’s head then surrenders her weapon to Franz.
In turn, Franz takes the machete before placing
Markus's head on top of his body. Novi and Marlina
attempt to leave, but Franz orders the two of
them to stay. He has Novi cook him dinner in
the kitchen while Marlina stays with him. Novi
goes inside the kitchen, trying to cook a batch
of poisoned chicken soup, but she faces extreme
difficulty in doing so as she is about to have
her baby. While Novi is boiling the water, she
hears Marlina crying for help in the other room.
Novi takes the machete that she stashed earlier
and barges into Marlina's room, where she finds
Franz lying on top of her. Novi swings down the
machete on Franz's neck, severely injuring him.
Marlina manages to slide away from underneath
him, and she holds him down for Novi to deliver
the final blow. In the end, Franz is beheaded the
same way Markus was. Now that everything's over,
the heavily pregnant Novi howls in pain as she
slumps down the floor. Marlina immediately assists
her, and fortunately, Novi manages to deliver
the baby successfully. The two women laugh and
embrace one another, knowing that in the end, the
two of them prevailed in the cruel world of men.